hi I'm Asda cook England cricket captain
and I'm here with Buxton the batting
master class on the cut shop you tend to
play the cut shot on the balls back of a
length and slightly wide on the channel
you use the pace of the ball looking
either a back good point or just in
front or just behind it's a really
valuable scoring shot so you play the
cut shot - pretty bad delivery - if
we're honest the bowlers strayed in line
in length so it's probably pitching
around here as you see that's pretty bad
pull and it's time to capitalize and try
and punish him with a fall I'm playing
the cut shop you know clear it's a back
foot shot so all your weight is on the
back foot you know you're going across
towards off stump and as you're hitting
the ball you want to make sure your head
is towards the ball one of the dangers
is you can throw your hands at it you
want to hit it as hard as you can and
you lean back and you have no control so
the practice we'll be doing today we're
making sure we're getting right on top
of it maybe going on your tiptoes when
you're back in the crease and really
controlling the shot with your eyes and
your head and your hands all in the same
area so we still up a bowling machine
standing bowling exactly the right area
slightly back of a length when as the
bowler gives you a bit more width to
score so it's just outside of channel
your first move is obviously to play
back my back comes from high to low
extending out in front of me hitting it
right level with my eyes and my head is
key do not lean back if you're leaning
back on the shot you have less control
that was a late cut I let it come on you
don't have to hit it as hard you can use
all the pace of the ball with a cut shot
the pace of the ball does all the work
for you when you want to hit it slightly
behind square in front of square and on
square you're trying to probably use a
bit more welly trying to hit it a little
bit harder if you're playing the late
cut use all the pace of the ball as
guchi once said to me it's like tapping
on his head you let it come pasture
hardly any effort at all let the ball do
all the work hit it behind you and it'll
go somewhere between gully and third
slip hopefully for four but want to hit
it harder in front of square
you can give it a whack there as you see
it's a great shot to play really puts
the bar under pressure when the air of
line and length so you've seen how I
practice a cut shot I think it's three
really key facts you got to remember the
first one it's making sure you have a
nice solid base when you hit the ball
second one you want to keep it down high
to low high back lift down to low not
really rolling the wrist but it's
keeping the control of the ball keep it
all on the ground and the third one is
when you try and hit things too hard you
can lean back make sure your head stays
perfectly in control and over that side
of the ball
there is another variation of a cut shot
it's called the uppercut it's normally
played two guys bowling nice and quick
bangs hitting very short and wide it's
too wide to play the hook shot too so
you can leave it alone as a scoring
option if you haven't got a third man's
to pay the uppercut you kind of let all
your inhibitions go and all you're doing
is trying to hit the ball upwards with a
cut shot this is very much low to high
and giving it some welly all you're
looking on to do is get caught about
half of that on it and it'll fire the
slips or if you want a little bit more
control you can kind of ramp it or guide
it off the face of the bat and you're
just as Gucci would say glide it on its
way this although I had to give myself a
little bit of room to create the angle
you probably wouldn't see it in the MTC
coaching book but it can't be a very
effective shot oh that helps and I hope
you're hitting them like Robin Smith
after watching this